new post: Glean & GeckoView (#21)
badboy/fnordig.de: _posts/2021-09-16-glean-geckoview.md

(and on the [Mozilla Data blog](https://blog.mozilla.org/data/category/glean/)).
This article is [cross-posted on the Mozilla Data blog][datablog].

---

This is a followup post to [Shipping Glean with GeckoView](/2021/07/26/shipping-glean-with-geckoview/).

<center>

## It landed!

</center>

It took us several more weeks to put everything into place, but we're finally shipping the Rust parts of the Glean Android SDK with GeckoView
and consume that in [Android Components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/pull/10828) and [Fenix](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/fenix/pull/20889).
And it still all works, collects data and is sending pings!
Additionally this results in a slightly smaller APK as well.

This unblocks further work now.
Right now Gecko simply stubs out all calls to Glean when compiled for Android,
but we will take those out and thus enable recording Glean metrics within Gecko and exposing them in pings sent from Fenix.
We will also start work on moving other Rust components into mozilla-central in order for them to use the Rust API of Glean directly.

> There's also some sharp edges now developing Glean and testing it out across these different components,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also some rough edges now developing Glean and testing it out across these different components,
```
